Josh Gribbon
SSW555WS - Agile Methods for Software Development
Homework 02
2017-02-05

---
1. How are user stories similar to use cases?

Both are intended to model functions of a system in an abstract and useful way, to ensure that the end product is properly fulfilling the requirements of the stakeholders.

---
2. How are user stories different from use cases?

Use cases seem more broad in that they define a function of the system based on perceived needs, and then that is used to guide building that functionality. User stories on the other hand come from the users and outlines the actual actions a user would do to interact with the system and what the goals are, and then the system is created with this workflow in mind.


---
3. Give an example user story for a college registration system.

Title: Add enrollment in a course

Acceptance test: testAddEnrollment

Priority: 1

Story points: 2

Description: As a student I want to be able to easily enroll in courses online. I should be able to search or otherwise navigate to the courses I want to enroll in, then be able to select them to enroll.

---
4. Give a corresponding use case for a college registration system.

Name: Add enrollment in a course

Description: A student should be able to use the system to enroll themselves in classes

Actors: Student, system

Basic flow: Student locates the course they wish to enroll in, then if they are able to they can choose to enroll in the course.

Alternate flows: The student locates a course but is not able to enroll, so they see an error message explaining that.

---
5. Explain how your two examples support your answers to the first two questions.

The user story is from the perspective of the student and is driven by their needs. The student states what they want to do and how it would happen intuitively. With the use case the definition is the ability of the system, which can be more discrete but may not fully capture the intent of the process as well as the user story.
