Josh Gribbon
SSW555WS - Agile Methods for Software Development
Homework 03
2017-02-12

---
1. Describe what happens (and who does it) at each of the following events for Sprint 3:

* Sprint Planning
    * The product owner and developers create the backlog for the sprint to decide what features will be added and planning for the workload. Then the product owner will talk about the sprint goal, giving the business perspective to everyone knows what the main goal is, and is able to work with that in mind. Lastly they decide what the criteria is to call the project done, to avoid moving goalposts.
* Daily Scrum
    * Dev Team meets with the scrum master to give updates and what they did since the last meeting and the plan for before the next meeting, and if anything is getting in the way of them getting something done.
* Sprint Review
    * Here the product owner or dev team will demo new features from the sprint, and then they review the progress along with the scrum master and stakeholders. Because this is the middle of the project, the burndown chart should now be a good representation of if the project is on track or not as well.
* Sprint Retrospective
    * Here the development team and scrum master meet to reflect on their process and see if it can be improved somehow.

---
2. For each role on the team (Developer, Scrum Master, Product Owner) describe how they update or review the Burn-down chart at each of the events mentioned above, and why they perform each action.

* Developer
    * Sprint planning - Work with team to figure out the plan that the burndown chart will track.
    * Daily scrum - update status on tasks, which form the data for the chart
    * Sprint review - See how actual progress compared to the plan.
    * Sprint retrospective - Review how well the actual progress followed the plan, and adjust accordingly.
* Scrum master
    * Sprint planning - Work with team to figure out the plan that the burndown chart will track.
    * Daily scrum - get the task updates and note them so the chart can be updated
    * Sprint review - See how actual progress compared to the plan.
    * Sprint retrospective - Review how well the actual progress followed the plan, and adjust accordingly.
* Product owner
    * Sprint planning - Work with team to figure out the plan that the burndown chart will track.
    * Daily scrum - Not at daily scrum.
    * Sprint review - See how actual progress compared to the plan.
    * Sprint retrospective - Not at the retrospective.
