Josh Gribbon
SSW555WS - Agile Methods for Software Development
Homework 05
2017-02-26

================================
Citation 1
http://ezproxy.stevens.edu:2109/document/5342407/
Author(s): Stuart Wray
Publication: IEEE Software
Volume/number: Volume 27, Issue 1
Page numbers: 50-55
Date: Jan-Feb 2010

I chose this one as a good overview of problems and most important practices

Notes:
Different definitions of what pair programming is will cause different outcomes for the same term, caused by different implementations.
If done well it works, but that can be tricky.
The frequent conversation and explanation improves code quality by finding bugs quickly and making sure that the code written is matching the intention of the author. What we know about knowledge suggests that language is a key part of information recall and processing in the brain. "The right question draws forth the crucial knowledge, and in a moment of epiphany, the answer becomes obvious". Because language is so important, talking out loud helps a lot
Two people will see the same screen and notice different things. People are bad at finding visual differences, and the brain will show you what you expect over what's actually there. Having two people can correct for this.
Pairs will fill each others knowledge gaps, spending less time on research and more time coding. Concepts can be explained quickly in the moment with the perfect example, so the partner that is learning will also learn it better.
Pair pressure leads to better use of best practices and good conventions.
The only way people can really judge programming ability is to see them program and work with them. By swapping pairs everyone can learn everyone else's abilities and skills, and then the team can plan better, play on everyone's strengths, and help with each other's weaknesses.


================================
Citation 2
http://ezproxy.stevens.edu:2167/science/article/pii/S0950584909000123?np=y&npKey=7201a3ac3c0b901245b403c7b394ffaa1385e5d64ab93117aa2c205c7d3efa92
Author(s): Jo E Hannay, Tore Dyba, Erik Arisholm, Dag IK Sjoberg
Publication: Information and Software Technology
Volume/number: Volume 51, Issue 7
Page numbers: 1110-1122
Date: July 2009

This one is cool because it's a summary of a bunch of studies to see what the trend across them has been

Notes:
Small significant positive effect on quality
Medium significant positive effect on duration
Medium significant negative effect on effort(manhours)
Increased speed decreased quality versus solo for simple tasks
Decreased speed increased quality versus solo for complex tasks

================================
Citation 3
http://ezproxy.stevens.edu:2167/science/article/pii/S1071581907001395?np=y&npKey=4e9aea36be3a23514428a9700cc5c0bf3c1f929db5ed73ca79ba9867f84259fe
Author(s): Brian Hanks
Publication: International Journal of Human-Computer Studies
Volume/number: Volume 66, Issue 7
Page numbers: 530-544
Date: July 2008

This discusses pair programming remotely using an interface that adds another cursor for gesturing. At my last coop we had some remote workers and as I was reading about how pair programming helps people get on the same page and fill knowledge gaps I thought about how that would be good for pairing a remote working with someone on the local team.

Notes:
Study used students in an introductory programming course
Remote vs local had no effect on performance for assignments or the final
Students using the remote tool worked together more often than students working locally

================================
Conclusion

I conclude that pair programming is better overall for software development than individual programming.

Pair programming is better where it counts. You get simple tasks done faster, and complex tasks done with higher quality code. The simple tasks in turn have lower quality and the complex tasks are done slower, but that is arguable the way that makes the most sense. There's no point making the perfect bolt for a car if the engine doesn't work well. This puts the focus on the important parts of a project, while still improving quality overall.

Psychology supports pair programming in a few different ways. The frequent back and forth conversation in pair programming can elicit questions causing insight that an individual would not have alone. The act of putting your thoughts and actions to words will cause your brain the analyze what's going on more, causing the pair to produce better work with less issues early on. Visually, when you look at anything, you see what your brain expects to see over what is actually there. You fill in blind spots, colors, details and without knowing it. This can work against you when what you think the code is saying differs from what it actually is, which is the root of many bugs. Different people will notice different things and fill in many small and large visual and mental misconceptions. This extends into the knowledge of the individuals versus the pair. Pairs will fill each others knowledge gaps, also teaching each other along the way. This means the pair spends more time intelligently writing code, and the individuals knowledge improves continually with perfect examples to learn through. "Pair pressure" will cause the pair to write code following better practices, and with higher quality by constantly subconsciously making everyone want to perform better.

Observationally, the only good way to judge programming ability is to see someone work through a program. Pair programming with rotating pairs will cause the whole team to learn everyone else's abilities in depth. Then they can plan better, know who to ask for advice, play on strengths and cover and educate for weaknesses. It can also be hard to judge your own abilities, so this additionally offers everyone frequent feedback system of your strengths and weaknesses.

As an added bonus, it can also work just as well remotely. This can help companies with remote workers connect their development team more, while also getting the benefits of pair programming paired with the benefits of the significantly different background the remote worker may have. Remote pair programming would also work well for distributed companies or working from home, combining the flexibility that comes with remote work with the benefits of pair programming.
