Josh Gribbon
SSW555WS - Agile Methods for Software Development
Homework 07
2017-03-19

================================
1. In the reading assignment this week Poppendieck and Cusumano point out that some of the principles of the lean philosophy have been practiced by software developers in the past, before agile methods like XP and Scrum were invented. Describe one of these "pre-agile" software development practices or methods that embraces one of the lean principles, and explain how it does that.
    Harlan Mills "top-down programming" was a system where modules are built as they are integrated into other systems, so any integration issues that affected the design were naturally avoided. This relates to building quality in, because the modules are all developed with careful attention to the actual systems they will be interacting with, so instead of trying to glue things together, you have a fined tuned machines were everything fits together perfectly(in theory).

2. Describe a practice of XP that is consistent with one of the principles of the lean philosophy, and explain how it does that.
    "Deliver as fast as possible" in lean is comparable to "small releases" in XP, in that the small releases tie into delivering frequently and quickly. Small releases make small changes over time, making it easier to change based on feedback, and to catch issues quickly before they get forgotten.

3. Describe a practice of Scrum that is consistent with one of the principles of the lean philosophy, and explain how it does that.
    Empowering the team in lean is the goal of the way scrum describes the development team and their interactions with the scrum master. Lean says managements should facilitate rather than dictate, and that is the scrum masters main job - to clear the road for the team and help them deliver. The scrum master is sometimes called the "team facilitator", in that they are concerned with helping the team work well.


4. Describe a practice of XP or Scrum that violates one of the principles of the lean philosophy, and explain how it does that.
    I'd argue quite a bit of scrum violates deciding as late as possible, because there is a heavy focus on planning and reviewing to plan better. While development specifics are decided by the person closest to the problem when it comes up, on a large scale the plan is made and the tasks are given to the team, as opposed to starting with the whole project and making decisions on what to build.
