1. Describe at least two risks of using prototypes rather than documents to describe requirements and designs. Hint: not all of the actors involved in DSDM are software developers.

One risk is that the prototype will be useful for showing requirements that might be needed for the design. A prototype can show basic operation and interface, but a requirement might be something like speed or deliverable size, which might not be accurately measurable until later in the development. Another risk is time spent developing the prototype could be wasted if the result doesn't fit the requirements well, due to them not be explicitly stated.

---
2. For each of the risks you just identified, describe some other artifact that could be used besides a prototype (or, in addition to a prototype) that would mitigate the risk.

For requirements like speed and size, artifacts could be tests showing these metrics during the development, which could potentially be charted to predict the end result. For a prototype that isn't build upon later, an artifact could be isolating features and reporting on them individually, so then all is not lost moving forward.

---
3. For each of the mitigating artifacts you just described, estimate the cost of producing the artifact and compare it to the cost of producing the prototype.
The "test result" artifact could be produced pretty easily, especially if testing is already including in the development process. All that would really need to happen is to record results and then make the chart, so if testing is already present the cost is essentially nothing, needing only a few minutes in a spreadsheet. If testing is not already included then the additional cost would depend on on the team, their experience, and access to testing tools.

For the "independent feature reports", the cost would be proportional to the complexity of the prototype. This could probably be handled with just a list of features and feedback, so again fairly low added cost. This could also be scaled up to an in-depth analysis of each part, would might be justified depending on the importance of the feedback and the cost of a bad decision.
