Josh Gribbon
SSW555 - Agile
2017-04-02
Homework 09

---

1. Describe each of the six different roles mentioned by FDD. (Note: Don't just copy the descriptions found at Palmer's website. Express everything in your own words.) For each role describe:
    1. What skills and/or knowledge is needed to fulfill the role. Justify your answer by referring to the tasks and responsibilities they have.
    2. how much software development experience is needed

**Project manager**
* Skills - project management, time management, estimation, knowledge of technology used. They need these skills to fulfill their role as the administrator, making sure the team and project are in an optimal environment for success, and understanding the ins and outs of development to understand the needs of the project and team
* Experience - experience with FDD development lifecycle, project management in general, business operations, technical experience

**Chief Architect**
* Skills - project architecture design, explanation of concepts, solving design problems. They need these skills to lead the design of the project and lead the team through high-level development issues.
* Experience - development lifecycle, architecture design, leadership

**Development Manager**
* Skills - leadership, technical knowledge, and team management. They need these skills so they can work for the success of the team with by handling day-to-day problems.
* Experience - development lifecycle, technical problems, business operations, resource management

**Chief Programmers**
* Skills - large technical knowledge, knowledge of development lifecycle, and architecture design. They need these skills so they can understand development details throughout the project and create a well-designed system that can be developed well by the team.
* Experience - development lifecycle, programming, architecture design

**Chief Owners**
* Skills - deep technical knowledge, development tooling, documentation, communication. They need these skills to develop the code for their features.
* Experience - programming, basic development lifecycle, written and verbal communication

**Domain Experts**
* Skills - user perspective, business knowledge, communication. They need these skills to understand the needs of the user and relay them to the team effectively.
* Experience - user experience, business operations, possibly research and analysis




2. Describe the advantages and disadvantages of segregating the software developer population by the roles in FDD.

**Advantages**
* More role definition makes more organization to guide interactions("Who do I ask about X?")
* Less breadth of responsibilities allows for greater depth of knowledge, and higher quality code
* Isolation of concerns to find issues

**Disadvantages**
* More structure means less flexibility - possibly a loss is "agility"
* You need people with the requisite skills and experience to fill the various roles
* More separation means less communication
