Josh Gribbon
20170409
SSW555 - Agile
Homework 10

---

For each different color of the Crystal family of methods there are different assumptions about the project and different expectations of the project team. In general the process becomes more formal as the risks of the project increase.

1. Describe how project risks increase as the colors change from Clear to Red.
    As the colors move from clear to red the change is in the amount of people involved, rather than the criticality of the system, so the risks are the investment of the company in time, money and resources. With clear the team is small, and the risk is small, but as we move to red the team size grows and the company is at a larger and larger risk if the project were to fail.

2. Describe how the process becomes more formal as the colors change from Clear to Red.
    As we move from clear to red more and more structure is added. Just as larger building need stronger foundations, large teams need structure to operate well. As the team size grows more roles and grouping are added, creating a hierarchy rather than just "flat" team.

3. Explain why the process must become more formal as the risks increase. That is, justify each new formalism with its mitigation effect on risks.
    We need to add formalism to mitigate risks because the organization helps spot issues by having people looking at the project from different angles and different perspectives, in addition to having formal processes in general control for variances. Having multiple levels of checks adds accountability and backups so that nothing important can be missed.

4. Describe how agility is sacrificed as the colors change from Clear to Red.
    As the team grows and more structure is added, agility is lost through the formalism and hierarchical divisions. Having more baggage is going to slow down any changes, but the control is needed to handle the increased momentum of a larger project, much like a boat that can carry a huge amount but needs to start slowing down miles off-shore.
