**Intro:** Review of parameter passing methods - call by reference VS call by need

Both are the same if a variable is passed in, they differ when it isn't, if you just pass in the value or if you create a new reference and use that.

> ## Good practice - go through problems or exercise booklets and write out the environment and store - _exercise book 7_ has problems to practice

# Type Checking

## Typable expressions and evaluation safety

If an expression can be assigned a type, we call it **typable**.

-   A typable expression is considered _safe to evaluate_.

Evaluation is safe _iff_ for every evaluation of `a(n)`:

1.  Variable `var`, the variable is bound
2.  `-(exp1, exp2)`, both `exp2` and `exp2` are `num-val`s
3.  `zero?(exp)`, `exp` is a `num-val`
4.  `if exp1 then exp2 else exp3`, `exp1` is a `bool-val`
5.  `(rator rand)`, `rator` is a `proc-val`

Evaluation of safe programs can still fail: division by 0, car of an empty list, infinite loop, etc

### Concrete syntax of types

    <Type> ::= int
    <Type> ::= bool
    <Type> ::= (<Type> --> <Type>)

### A note of defining types - a digression

Our language is **monomorphic** in that you are not able to create functions that can take in multiple different types for the same parameter.

Type inference for polymorphic languages has been proven to be undecidable.

`proc(x) x`, the identity function, is not legal. We will do `proc(x:int) x` to do it with a defined type.

You can get around this with `let-polymorphism` sometimes.

## Specifying the behavior of the type checker

**On a test:** Given an expression, give the type derivation of the expression

*The issue:* we need to be able to check if variable types are correct, so we need a way to check types. We'll use a **type environment**, `tenv` to associate types and variables.

We're going to write another interpreter with another environment, to check types. A symbolic interpreter executed statically, not at runtime.
