# Scheme basics
* **Programs are expressions.** When you "execute" the program, you are evaluating the expression.
* Expressions are **typed**, but **not statically**. This can be good and bad, often depending on the case. The benefit is that you get a little more freedom in the language, and the downside being that you can run into errors at runtime that you can't check when compiling
* **Atomic expressions(AKA values)** evaluate to themselves

---

**Scheme types**
  Name|Example|Notes
  ---|---|---
  Numbers|`2`, `'34`
  Booleans|`#t`, `#f`
  Chars|`#\A`, `#\B`
  Strings|`"Hello"`
  Symbols|`'Hello`|An atomic value that prints like an identifier
  Functions|`(lambda (x) (+ x 1))`|Also called procedures
  Pair|`'(1 . 2)`, `'( (#t . 3) . #f)`
  List|`'(1 2 3 4)`, `'((2 3) #t)`
  Vector|`#(1 #t '(1 2))`|Constant time access, fixed length

---

**Operations on pairs**
Expression|Value
--:|:--
`(pair? '(2 . 3))`|`#t`
`(cons 1 2)`|`'(1 . 2)`
`(car (cons 1 2))`|`1`
`(cdr (cons 1 2))`|`2`

---

**Operations on lists**
Expression|Value
--:|:--
`(list? '(1 . 2))`|`#f`
`(list? '(1 2))`|`#t`
`(null? '())`|`#t`
`(null? '(1))`|`#f`
`null`|`'()`
`(cons 1 (cons 2 null))`|`'(1 2)`
`(car (cons 1 (cons 2 null)))`|`1`
`(cdr (cons 1 (cons 2 null)))`|`'(2)`

---

**Operations on Symbols**
Expressions|Value
--:|:--
`(eq? 'a 'a)`|`#t`
`(eq? 'a 'A)`|`#f`
`(symbol? '(1 2 3))`|`#f`
`(symbol? '1)`|`#f`
`(symbol? 'hello)`|`#t`

---

**Operations on vectors**
Expression|Value
--:|:--
`(vector 1 2)`|`#(1 2)`
`(make-vector 5)`|`#(0 0 0 0 0)`
`(vector? 2)`|`#f`
`(vector? #(1 2 3))`|`#t`
`(vector-ref #(5 67 98) 2)`|`98`
`(vector-length #(5 67 98))`|`3`

---

**Operations on Functions**
Expression|Value
--:|:--
`((lambda (x y) (+ x y)) 3 4)`|`7`
`((lambda (x) (+ x 1)) 3)`|`4`

---

**Higher order functions** are functions that either **take in or return functions**.

>**Example:**`((lambda (x) (x 1)) (lambda (y) (+ y 1)))`>>>`2`
Let's break it down!
`(` `(lambda (x) (x 1))` `(lambda (y) (+ y 1))` `)`
`(lambda (x) (x 1))` = `f(x) = x(1)`
`(lambda (y) (+ y 1))` = `g(x) = x + 1`
The second function gets passed into the first one, which returns the result with an input of `1`. The second function gets the input and adds `1` to it, returning `2`.
To put it another way, `f(g(x)) => g(1) => 2` where `f(x) = x(1)` and `g(x) = x + 1`

---

With an expression `(e1 e2)` in scheme, the value is obtained by:
1. Evaluate `e1` to get `v1`, expecting a function
2. Evaluate `e2` to get `v2`, a value
3. Evaluate `v1` with the input of `v2` (Technically we are replacing the *formal parameter* of `v1` with `v2`)

This tells us **Scheme uses a a call-by-value evaluation strategy**

---
**Naming expressions - local definitions**
```
> (define x 3)
> x
3
> (+ x 1)
4

> (define succ (lambda (x) (+ x 1)))
> (succ 3)
4

> (define add (lambda (x y) (+ x y)))
> (add 1 3)
4

> add
#<procedure:add>
```

---

**Conditional - if**
```
> (if (> 2 3) 3 5)
5

> (define not (labda (x) (if x #f #t)))
> (not #t)
#f
> (not #f)
#t
```

---

**Conditonal - cond**
```
> (cond)
> (cond
    [else 5])
5
> (cond
    [(positive? -5) (error "-5 isn't positive")]
    [(zero? 5) (error "5 is not 0")]
    [(positive? 5) 'yes])
'yes
```

---

**Type notation**

Because Scheme is not statically typed, we're going to add comments to denote the types for functions as a reference, as follows:
```
;;Takes in 2 numbers, returns a number
;; {num, num} -> num
(define (add x y)
  (+ x y))

;;Takes in a number, returns a function that takes in a number and returns a number
;; num -> (num -> num)
(define add2
  (lambda (x)
    (lambda (y)
      (+ x y))))
```

Annotation|Meaning
:--|:--
`num`|Number
`bool`|Boolean
`num -> bool`|Procedure takes in a number and returns a boolean
`(num, bool)`|Pair of a number and a boolean
`[num]`|List of numbers
`[(string, char)] -> bool`|Procedure takes in a list of string-character pairs, and returns a boolean
`(a,b) -> (a,b)`|Procedure takes in a pair of arbitrary values and returns the pair swapped
`[a] -> num`|Proc takes in a list of arbitrary values and returns a number


## Misc stuff
* **Currying** is the process (maybe only in haskell and not scheme) where a function that takes multiple arguments is converting into a function that takes one argument, and returns a function that can take the next argument, eventually returning a Value

## Scheme demo
See `20170120_intro.rkt` for the file containing demo stuff we did in class to explore the language
