>This is your brain on lean

# Lean Software Development

## Origin of lean
**Toyota in the 1950s** started using a lean production system to compete with Form and GM in mass manufacturing. Japan had a smaller population and needed to be more agile, shifting quickly between models, and eliminating waste.

### The Piggly Wiggly Story
Toyota went to visit a Ford factory, and most of how they did stuff wouldn't be practical for them, but they liked a system at a grocery store, and used this "Just In Time" strategy


## Principles of lean
Toyota's 7 Principles of Lean

1. **Eliminate Waste** - anyone that doesn't add value shouldn't be there. We can find waste through Value Stream Mapping.
2. **Amplify learning** - everyone needs to learn and apply improvements as soon as possible, reading and refactoring code help, short iterations help
3. **Decide as late as possible** - decisions that need to change make waste, more time gives a more educated decision when it needs to happen
4. **Deliver as fast as possible** - quick iterations and feedback and the best
5. **Empower the team** - workers should measure their own effort, make their own process, choose their own tools, and *management should facilitate, not dictate*
6. **Build integrity in** - build a good product, refactor whenever needed, test frequently, develop releases that provide value
7. **See the whole** - everyone should know the whole project, developers shouldn't be isolated from customers

## Practices of lean

### Value Stream Mapping
Diagram for the flow of goods or information, showing current and desired situation. Identify waste and work to remove it to work toward to future map.

### Set-based Development
Create several designs to satisfy customer requirements, explore alternatives, maybe prototype, and then make cuts to choose the best design.

### Pull Systems
Smaller building block material should be generated as needed for the big picture, not created constantly with estimates for future needs.

### Kanban board
Trello, Microsoft Planner

**Visual display of the development process**
