# The NSA/CSS
>National Security Agency/ Central Security Service
* Employs more math PhDs than anyone else in the US
* Also employs a lot of engineers and artists
* Better funded than the FBI/CIA

**The CSS** is the military branch of information gathering. They work with the armed forces and share information to help them with whatever,

**The NSA** is a government agency who reports to the president and an assembly within congress.

NSA Objectives:
1. Signals Intelligence (SIGINT) - listen to stuff, crack codes, get info
2. Information Assurance - make sure our government info is secure

## History
1. Cipher Bureau (1919-1929) - started during WW1, shut down eventually because they why spying on US citizens
2. Telegraph taps in peacetime - Western Union worked with the government to help them spy on people
3. NSA (1952-present) - President Truman *secret* executive order, sparked largely by the Cold War
    * President can make secret executive orders for certain things, but if it costs money congress needs to approve it, so it was also a secret with them, and for decades no one really acknowledged it's existence

## Computer and computing landmarks
Due to the NSA's special needs they made huge advances in computing, particularly with handling and processing enormous amounts of data. This was basically the first step towards "big data".
* HUGE amounts of I/O
    * Magnetic tape standards
    * Faster printers
    * Indexing Data (Once you have all the data, you need to organize it and be able to find stuff easily)
    * Document input
* Information processing (VS. pure mathematics)
    * Logical processes (The `if` statement wasn't a thing before 1952!)
    * Data transformation

### Projects
* DEMON 1948 - first use of magnetic drum for storage and analysis at electronic speeds - first hard drive
* ABNER 1952 - first use of computing with simultaneous input and output
* ATLAS II 1953 - first core memory computer in US - solid-state predecessor to RAM
* SOLO 1958 - first completely transistor computer - kicked off Moore's law
* HARVEST 1962 - First completely automated tape library (TRACTOR) - ability to look up info and compare records
* LIGHTNING 1957
    * 320 patents, 71 university theses - these were public even though the project wasn't
    * Fast memory
    * High-speed circuitry
    * Component fabrication - more reliable and better all around

## Cryptography
### 1970 - Research at MIT and Stanford
1. Block publication - "Hey we want your research but don't let other people know about it"
2. Block NSF funding - "Hey these guys are still publishing stuff we don't want, please stop funding any crypto research"
3. Compromise: create standard - "Let's just work together to create one awesome version instead of better and worse ones"

### Public cipher: IBM and NSA
IBM took it upon themselves to create the standard for the NSA, and created the **Data Encryption Standard(DES) in 1975**.

>Encryption side note:
In **symmetrical encryption** there is a key to encrypt and decrypt the document, and there needs to be a third party that both parties trust to transfer the key between Bob and Alice. Here the obvious problem is you need the third party and the key is inherently not secure because it gets passed around.
The **Diffie-Hellman key exchange** fixed this by creating the public/private key combos, A public key encrypts a document such that only the private key that is paired to that public key can decrypt the document. This is **asymmetrical encryption**.

### Key length
In DES, the NSA wanted 48 bit, and IBM made it for 64 bit. They settled on 56 bit, because the NSA didn't want to make it too difficult for them to brute-force and break the encryption. They had the computer that would be able to handle that, when most people wouldn't be able to.

DES was brute forced in 1999 in 9 hours, but Diffie and Hellman said in 1975 they could brute force DES with a $20M computer, which the NSA could easily have or make.

Some concerns:
* Security VS convenience
* Performance VS speed

DES usage:
* Mainframe data
* Financial communications
* Police communications

### 1980s
"We like having the good encryption here, but no ones allowed to sell good encryption outside of the US" - this set us back on the global market

### 1990s
**Clipper chip** was a "key escrow system" chip to put in telecom devices that has a user and government key at 80 bits each.

All communications would be encrypted, but the government can get a warrant and get the key to decrypt stuff and see all communications.

This got to Congress and the US public hated it, so it got stopped.

#### PGP! (Pretty Good Privacy)
In response to the clipper chip stuff Diffie and Hellman released PGP as a way for the people to have the power and have a really secure system.

The US around this time had a kinda backwards idea that instead of creating better encryption we were just going to trust a third party and keep easy access for the government. This was just repeatedly disproven because any backdoor is a vulnerability.

PGP is public and open source, and constantly checked by really smart people to try to find issues with it. As far as we know the NSA can't break it.

### 1999

White house removed trade restriction on exports of commercial encryption products, regardless of key length.

### 2017
* Signal
* iMessage
* PGP

Now we have multiple good encryption methods that don't have big known vulnerabilities.

Recently we've seen the San Bernardino iPhone case where the FBI wanted Apple to unlock an iPhone, and they refused because it's a closed system and creating any backdoor ruins it's security.

### The Internet
No Security, not by design, that's just how it ended up. Encryption wasn't a big deal when the internet was being formed so it wasn't included.

When the ARPAnet was starting out, there wasn't even logins because no was no fear to drive a need for security. Everyone assumed that people weren't there to cause issues.

The NSA probably couldn't have designed a better surveillance system if they tried. Everything is inherently unsecure, everyone is online often, and the culture supports openness.

#### Smart phones
Now even more info is ending up online and available for surveillance.

## Discussion
Security is important, and nobody wants to be at fault is there's an attack.
> Should security and privacy be equal? We know security is important, is privacy as important?

**YES** - they are the same or privacy is more important
* Everyone is affected by privacy
* We don't know if there necessarily is a large threat at any time
* We have values in culture and outlined in the constitution, and this goes against that, also making it public that we don't care about certain values
* "Chilling" argument - having less privacy makes people less open

**NO** - security is more important
* We need to stay safe against terrorist attacks and other outside dangers
* Propaganda happens anyway
* "I have nothing to hide"
* "Worst case scenario" - this could stop a nuke
