20170418

Rest of semester:
* **Next week** - lecture and review stuff, answer final questions
* **Two weeks** - *In class* final exam

Final topics:
* Everything in class
* Readings, if explicitly listed

# GNU, FOSS, Software

## Software usage types
* **Freeware** - intended to be used for free
* **Shareware** - free demo, pay for more features or updates
* **Vaporware** - announced but never released

Freeware and shareware *have no source code*, they're just about the binary.

## Value of software
>"Software is eating the world" ~Marc Andreesen(co-founder Netscape) 2011

Software is so valuable that everyone makes it now regardless of industry, but there's no good way to put a price on it.

### Trends in "ownership"
* Less packaged software
* Less price/package - no packaging/shipment costs for downloads
* Less paid mobile
* Less paid upgrades

### Marginal cost
**Marginal cost** is the cost of producing one more unit of a good. With economies of scale you can lower marginal cost.

As more competitors enter the market, the price of a product moves towards it's marginal cost.

The marginal cost of downloaded software is $0.

## Value software by - effort?
*Open Letter to Hobbyists* by Bill Gates (**ON FINAL**) - if we don't value the people that make something they're stop doing it. You need to protect IP to add incentive to creation.

We see this is music, film, photography, journalism, and they all face similar issues.

## Valuable software can be free

## Gratis VS Libre
* **Gratis** - free as in "free beer" - no cost
    * Flash, Java, Facebook Messenger
* **Libre** - free as in "free speech" - free to use as you please
    * Android, Linux, Apache
    * Run it wherever
    * Redistribute it wherever
    * View the source
    * Improve the source
    * The *existence* of this right is more important that it's *usage* all the time, just like free speech

## Contemporary Open Source
* Google: *Android* - money from advertising
* Sumsung: *Android* - money from hardware
* Oracle: *MySQL* - money from value-added options
* IBM: *Linux, Hadoop* - money from consulting
* Red Hat: *Linux* - money from platforms

## Free software - 1950s & 1960s
1. Software written by UNIVAC, IBM, etc
2. Software shipped with hardware (free as in beer)
3. Customers encouraged to modify and adapt (free as in speech)
    * Improvements can be shared
    * Bug fixes should be sent back to UNIVAC, IBM, etc

User groups form
* IBM's SHARE: SHARE Operating System (1959) is first open source OS
* DEC's DECUS: place to develop and distribute the first video games

## U.S. vs IBM (1969)
**Antitrust - bundled software was anticompetitive**

At the time IBM basically had a monopoly (IBM and the 7 dwarfs), and the government tried to break them up. They failed, but the US said they couldn't give software away for free because other companies don't have the scale to compete with free stuff.

## 1976 Copyright Act
Automatically **All Rights Reserved** - when you write something it's automatically copyrighted, and you can add a license to allow certain things.

## Software
**1970s**
Software is on paper tape
* Physical product
* Not too expensive
* Not directly modifiable - any changes would mean a new tape has to be printed

**1980s & 1990s**
Still physical products, boxes with media carrying code
* MS-DOS sold at Walmart
* Still feels wrong to steal it because it's an actual box to take from a store

Software ~= Microwaves ~= Cereal ~= Jeans - all are products, sold as physical items

Other events
* IBM's *Object Code Only* Policy (1983)
* *Apple vs. Franklin* determined binary code was copyrightable (1983)
    * "You're not allowed to reverse engineer code"
* AT&T commercializes Unix (early 1980s)

>Stallman 1990s - When software is valuable for humanity, sharing it is good for society

>Stewart Brand 1984 - "Information was to be free". On one hand it's valuable so it wants to be expensive, on the other hand distribution is free to it wants to be distributed and shared.

## Creative Commons
* Licensor - ex: musician
* Licensee - ex: record label
* Copyright - licensor granting individual licensee certain permissions
* Creative commons - licensor selecting rights for individual work

Corporate owned culture VS artist owned culture
* The role of the corporation changed when marginal cost and distribution cost dropped to $0 as a result of the internet
* Software has altered ow culture is consumed, and therefore culture itself

## Code is law
Lawrence Lessig

Code:
1. Symbols that can be interpreted by a computer
2. Systematically arrange collections of laws, ex:
    * Federal laws established by Congress
    * Signed into law by President

Software forms social control

## TensorFlow by Google
Contemporary open source machine learning software
* Free as in beer, and free as in speech

They have **data and infrastructure** to support their machine learning stuff.

## Culture now
Attention economy

# Dicussion

**Why pirate digital content?**
* Convenience
* Can't afford it
* Art should be free-flow
* No other way to get it
* Unethical distribution of revenue
* Paid for in the past, getting it again
* Textbooks/pdfs seem like a scam
    * Artificially high prices
* Cartel/ duopoly/ monopoly
* A la carte - why get all of HBO just for one show?
* Demo version
* It's fun to feel dangerous
* Not as much public shame as IRL stealing
* Advertising nuisance or violation of privacy from tracking
